# Insulator Instance Segmentation

In this project, we address the critical task of instance segmentation on images of insulators, an essential problem in the context of power lines. Successfully solving this problem can lead to advancements in automating the inspection and maintenance of power lines, reducing the need for human intervention. We utilize the [**"Unifying Public Datasets for Insulator"**](https://github.com/heitorcfelix/public-insulator-datasets) dataset, which features COCO-style data annotations. However, the challenge with this dataset is that it lacks segmentation mask values in its annotations. To tackle this issue, we explore two different approaches:

## Weakly-Supervised Learning

In this approach, we make use of the bounding boxes provided in the dataset to perform instance segmentation of insulators. We employ the [Box2Mask](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/box2mask-box-supervised-instance-segmentation) model to achieve this task. This method allows us to generate segmentation masks based on the available bounding box information.

## Supervised Learning with InternImage Model

In our second approach, we aim to create our own segmentation masks and then perform supervised learning for instance segmentation using the InternImage model. Here's the step-by-step process:

1. **Bounding Box to Segmentation Masks Conversion**: We begin by converting the bounding boxes into segmentation masks. To accomplish this, we utilize Facebook's [Segment-Anything-Model](https://github.com/facebookresearch/segment-anything) (SAM). SAM allows us to generate segmentation masks for the insulators based on the available bounding box information. This step is a crucial part of our approach, as it bridges the gap between weakly-supervised and fully-supervised instance segmentation.

2. **Supervised Instance Segmentation**: Once we have the segmentation masks generated by SAM, we employ them as our supervisory signal for training the [InternImage](https://github.com/opengvlab/internimage) model. This stage represents our fully-supervised approach, where the model is trained to perform precise instance segmentation of insulators.

The benefit of the SAM output is that it acts as a bridge, allowing us to apply a weakly-supervised approach while we await the availability of a dataset with segmentation mask annotations. This enables us to make progress in the absence of fully annotated data.

By employing these two innovative approaches, we aim to develop a robust instance segmentation solution for insulators on power lines, contributing to the automation of line inspection and maintenance tasks. This project serves as a step towards reducing the dependence on manual labor and improving the efficiency and accuracy of power line maintenance processes.

## How to Use
```shell
pip install git+https://github.com/facebookresearch/segment-anything.git
```